in this and the next video I want to
work through a detailed example showing
how a neural network in computing a
complex nonlinear function of the input
and hopefully does give you a good sense
of why neural networks can be used to
learn complex nonlinear hypotheses
consider the following problem where we
have input features x1 and x2 that are
binary values so either 0 or 1 so x1 x2
can each take on only one of two
possible values in this example I've
drawn only 2 positive examples and two
negative examples but you can think of
this as a simplified version of a more
complex learning problem where we may
have a bunch of positive examples that
you have to write in the lower left and
a bunch of negative examples did notify
the circles and what we'd like to do is
learn a nonlinear decision boundary then
maybe this separates the positive and
the negative examples so how can any row
network do this and rather than use the
example they're very going to use this
may be easier to examine example on the
left concretely what this is is really
computing the target label y equals x 1x
or X 2 or actually on this is actually
the X 1 X nor X 2 function where X nor
is the alternative notation for not x1
or x2 so x1 x1 x2 that's true only if
exactly one of x1 or x2 is equal to 1 it
turns out that the specific example on
the US works out a little bit better if
if we use the X nor examples that these
two are the same of course it means not
x1 X not X 1 X or X 2 and so we're going
to a positive examples that either both
are true or both are false and we'll
have that's y equals 1 y equals
we're going to have y equals zero if
only one of them is true and we want to
figure out if we can get a neural
network to fit to this sort of training
set in order to build out to a network
that 50 X norm example and we're going
to start to a slightly simpler one and
show a network that since the end
function concretely let's say we have
input X 1 and X 2 that are again by no
means this either 0 1 and let's say our
target labels Y our Y is equal to X 1
and X 2 this is a logical end so can we
get a 1 unit network to compute this
logical end function in order to do so
I'm going to actually draw in the bias
units as well the plus 1 unit now let me
just assign some values to the weights
or the parameters of this network I'm
going to write down the parameters on
this diagram drug minus 30 here plus 20
and plus 20 and what this means is that
I'm assigning a value of minus 30 to the
value associated with X 0 this is plus 1
going into this unit and a parameter
value of plus 20 that multiplies to X 1
and the value of plus 20 for the
parameter that multiplies into X 2 so
concretely this is saying that my
hypothesis H of X is equal to G of minus
30 plus 20 X 1 plus 20 X 2 so sometimes
it's just convenient to draw these
weights that draw these parameters up
here you know in the diagram with a
neural net
and of course this minus 30 this is
actually theta 1 of 1 0 this is theta 1
of 1 1 and that's theta 1 of 1 2 but
it's just easier think about it as
you're associating these parameters with
the edges of the network let's look at
what this little single neuron Network
will compute just to remind you the
sigmoid activation function G of Z looks
like this is class from 0 Rises smoothly
across the 0.5 and then the asymptotes
at 1 and to give some landmarks if the
horizontal axis values Z is equal to 4.6
then the sigmoid function is equal to
0.99 this is very close to 1 and kind of
symmetrically it is negative 4.6 then
the sigmoid function there is equal to
0.01 this is very close to 0 let's look
at the four possible input values for x1
and x2 and look at what the hypothesis
will output in that case if x1 and x2
are both equal to 0 if you look at this
if x1 x2 above equal to 0 then the
hypothesis output G of negative 30 so
sorry very far to the left of this
diagram and still be very close to 0 if
X 1 equals 0 and x2 equals 1 then this
formula here evaluates to G the sigmoid
function applied to minus 10 and again
that's you know to the far left of this
plot and so that's again very close to
zero this is also G of minus 10 that is
a if x1 is equal to 1 and X to 0 this is
minus 30 plus 20 which is minus 10
and finally if X 1 equals 1 X 2 equals 1
then you have G of minus 30 plus 20 plus
20 so that's G a positive 10 which is
therefore very close to 1 and if you
look in this column this is exactly the
logical end function so this is
computing H of X is you know
approximately X 1 and X 2 in other words
it outputs 1 if and only if X 2 X 1 and
X 2 above equal to 1 so by writing out
our little truth table like this we
managed to figure out what's the logical
function that our little neural network
computes
this network is shown here confuse the
old function just to show you how I work
that out if you are read out the
hypothesis you find that this confusing
G of minus 10 plus 20 X 1 plus 20 X 2
and so you fill in these values you find
that that's G of minus 10 which should
also be 0 G of 10 which is approximately
1 and so on these are approximately 1
and approximately 1 and these numbers is
essentially the logical or function so
hopefully with this you now understand
how single neurons in the neural network
can be used to compute logical functions
like ant and all and so on in the next
video we'll continue building on these
examples and work through a more complex
example we'll get to show you how a
neural network now with multiple layers
of units can be used to compute more
complex functions like your XOR function
or the xnor function